---
title: 'Tailoring Your Resume to What You Want'
date: '2021-03-17'
source: 'https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1586281380349-632531db7ed4?ixid=MXwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHw%3D&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1650&q=80'
---

I have participated in mentorship programs for [Break Through Tech](https://www.linkedin.com/company/break-through-tech/) where I conducted Resume Reviews for undergraduate women who were looking for entry-level technical positions. I have found some common areas for improvement, and I would like to share with you the three takeaways that could aid you in shaping your Resume.

## What Do You Want?
Allie had a hard time answering this question in The Notebook, and I get it. It's a tough question. It's very personal. That's the first thing to know about your Resume: it's very personal. When someone hands me their Resume, they want to know if it's "good". But there's no one magical Resume that makes every person who looks at it shed a tear, cancel interviews, and say let's hire this person immediately! (Though every time I get an automatic "we received your Resume" email, I hold out a little hope that it's going to say "we already want to hire you".) 

Instead, your Resume should show how you are a great fit for the position. This is a good thing! Especially if you are applying to be a Data Scientist. Because the term _Data Scientist_ is such a catch-all. Responsibilities could include any combination of machine learning, natural language processing, SQL reporting, data visualization, ETL pipelines, predictive modeling, statistical analysis, web apps, computer vision, etc. If you know specificly what you want and frame your Resume around what you are looking for, the more likely you will be hired for a position where you enjoy doing the work.

Once you have particularized what it is that you want, select a couple of job descriptions that mirror those particulars. Look at the responsibilities and requirements and think about how they apply to your projects, skills, and work experience. Then, use their exact words in the job descriptions to phrase your descriptions. This is why my Resume has the phrases "craft the story" and "presented actionable findings".

## Highlight What's Most Relevant and Cut the Rest
The hiring manager is looking at hundreds of Resumes. That means they are probably spending about 30 seconds looking at your Resume to determine if they want to interview you. Therefore, you should only be highlighting the most relevant parts of your experience that make you the right fit for what you want. I have noticed that people tend to go in the opposite direction. Due to insecurities over feeling like they don't have enough experience, new grads overcompensate by padding their experience section with tediously verbose descriptions. What the wordiness actually does is make your Resume _unreadable_. Try to put yourself in the hiring manager's shoes. If you had another 100 Resumes to look at, and this one Resume was a thrombosis of words, wouldn't you just move on to the next one?

As I stated earlier, you want to copy phrases directly from job descriptions. A hiring manager will control-find what they are looking for or have a computer program do it for them. If they are searching for a candidate on LinkedIn, their search terms are probably the same words from their job descriptions making your profile more likely to show up in their results. My Resume has the relevant terms "data science", "analysis", "machine learning", and "natural language processing" all over it. I repeat these terms in the skills section just for good measure.

One question I have gotten is, "Should I put my skills, work experience, or education first?" Again, your Resume is very personal. I believe my education to be my most impressive section so it's my first section. If you are someone that has taught themselves strong technical skills, you could put that ahead of education. Or maybe you think your summer internship has the same responsibilities as the job you are applying to. Just whatever you want to make sure they read, put first. I don't even believe that Resumes need to be chronological. Do you have a work experience that you have more to talk about? Feel free to place it higher than a different work experience. The only rule I have is to place a link to your GitHub page at the top. If I can't immediately find it, I assume you don't have a GitHub account.

## Putting the "Re" in Resume
It can be disheartening if you have been sending out your Resume and haven't been hearing back. An immediate reaction can be, "Why aren't I good enough?" But they can't see you as a whole person; they only see the limited amount of yourself that you have showcased in a single page. Instead of criticizing yourself, next time try editing your Resume. 

They say writing is re-writing, and that can be as true for writing a novel as writing a one page Resume. There are a ton of resources readily available to guide you on your Resume journey: your university career education center (you can still access university's online resources long after graduation), get a template and make it your own, look at [my Resume](http://localhost:3000/data/ShaineLeibowitz_Resume.pdf), read articles that say things like "action words". Ask people for feedback: family and friends, a slack group that has a Resume feedback channel, and if you want my feedback, connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shaine-leibowitz/). Remember as you accept help to only make changes that are right for you and what you want. 

